---
title: Quick Sort
---

### Intuition

- Divide-and-conquer sorting algorithm.
- Quick sort picks one number (the pivot) and rearranges the list: all smaller numbers go before it, and all larger ones go after. Then, it repeats this process for the smaller and larger groups, recursively, until the whole list is sorted.

### Pseudo Code

1. **Pivot Selection:** Choose an element from the data set as the pivot. This selection can impact efficiency, with strategies like choosing the middle element.
2. **Partitioning:** This step rearranges elements without full sorting.
   - Two pointers, one starting at the beginning (left) and another at the end (right), traverse the remaining data (excluding the pivot).
   - The left pointer moves right until it finds an element greater than the pivot.
   - The right pointer moves left until it finds an element less than the pivot (but greater than any element seen by the left pointer so far).
   - These two elements are swapped.
   - Steps (a) and (b) repeat until the left pointer overtakes the right pointer.
   - After this phase, the pivot is in its final sorted position, with all elements less than it to the left and all greater elements to the right.
3. **Recursive Conquest:** Now we have two sub-lists: elements less than and greater than the pivot.
   - Quick Sort is called recursively on the left sub-list, excluding the pivot.
   - Quick Sort is called recursively on the right sub-list, excluding the pivot.
4. **Combining:** Since the sub-lists are now sorted, simply combine the sorted left sub-list, the pivot element, and the sorted right sub-list to achieve the final sorted order.

### Code

```cpp title="Quick Sort"
int partition(vector<int> &arr, int low, int high)
{
	int pivot = arr[low];
	int i = low;
	int j = high;

	while (i < j)
	{
		while (arr[i] <= pivot && i < high)
			i++;
		while (arr[j] > pivot && j > low)
			j--;

		if (i < j)
			swap(arr[i], arr[j]);
	}
	swap(arr[low], arr[j]);
	return j;
}

void qs(vector<int> &arr, int low, int high)
{
	if (low < high)
	{
		int pIndex = partition(arr, low, high);
		qs(arr, low, pIndex - 1);
		qs(arr, pIndex + 1, high);
	}
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case  | Average    | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(nlogn)` | `O(nlogn)` | `O(n²)`    |
| Space Complexity | `O(logn)`  | `O(logn)`  | `O(n)`     |
