---
title: Max consecutive ones
---

### Question

Given a binary array `nums`, return _the maximum number of consecutive_ `1`_'s in the array_.

## Optimal Approach

### Intuition

1. **Initialization:**
   - Two variables are created:
     - `cnt` (counter) to keep track of the current number of consecutive ones encountered so far.
     - `maxi` (maximum) to store the maximum number of consecutive ones seen yet.
   - Both `cnt` and `maxi` are initialized to 0.
2. **Iterating through the Array:**
   - The code uses a `for` loop to iterate through each element (`nums[i]`) in the array `nums`.
3. **Updating Counters:**
   - If the current element is 1 (`nums[i] == 1`):
     - It increments the `cnt` by 1, indicating one more consecutive one found.
   - If the current element is 0 (`else`):
     - This breaks the streak of consecutive ones. So, it resets the `cnt` to 0 to start counting again from the next element.
4. **Updating Maximum:**
   - After checking the element and potentially updating `cnt`, the code compares the current `cnt` with the `maxi`.
   - Using the `max` function, it updates `maxi` if the current `cnt` (number of consecutive ones found so far) is greater than the previously stored `maxi`. This ensures `maxi` always holds the maximum number of consecutive ones encountered.
5. **Return Value:**
   - After the loop iterates through the entire array, the `maxi` variable will hold the maximum number of consecutive ones found in the array. The function returns this value.

### Code

```cpp [Find Max Consecutive Ones]
int findMaxConsecutiveOnes(vector<int> &nums)
{
	int cnt = 0;
	int maxi = 0;
	for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++)
	{
		if (nums[i] == 1)
			cnt++;
		else
			cnt = 0;

		maxi = max(maxi, cnt);
	}
	return maxi;
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(1)`    | `O(1)`  | `O(1)`     |
