---
title: Two sum
---

### Question

Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return _indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`_.

You may assume that each input would have _**exactly**_** one solution**, and you may not use the _same_ element twice.

You can return the answer in any order.

## Optimal Approach

### Intuition

1. **Initialization:**
   - An `unordered_map` named `mpp` is declared. It will store key-value pairs where the key is an integer from the array `arr`, and the value is the index of that integer's first occurrence in the array.
2. **Iterating through the Array:**
   - The code uses a for loop (`i`) to iterate through each element `arr[i]` in the array `arr`.
3. **Complement Search and Update:**
   - For each element `num = arr[i]`, it calculates the complement needed to reach the target (`moreNeeded = target - num`).
   - The code then searches for the complement (`moreNeeded`) in the hash table using the `find` function.
     - If the complement is found (`mpp.find(moreNeeded) != mpp.end()`), it means there exists another element in the array (at index `mpp[moreNeeded]`) that can be paired with the current element `num` to reach the target sum.
     - In this case, a vector containing the two valid indices (`{mpp[moreNeeded], i}`) is returned using curly braces for initialization.
   - If the complement is not found (`mpp.find(moreNeeded) == mpp.end()`), it means this is the first time encountering `num`. So, it adds a new entry to the hash table with `num` as the key and the current index `i` as the value. This stores the index of the current element for future reference in case its complement is encountered later.
4. **No Solution Found:**
   - If the loop completes without finding a complement, it means no pair adds up to the target. In this case, the function returns a vector with `{-1, -1}` to indicate no solution exists

### Code

```cpp [Two Sum]
vector<int> twoSum(int n, vector<int> &arr, int target)
{
	unordered_map<int, int> mpp;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++)
	{
		int num = arr[i];
		int moreNeeded = target - num;
		if (mpp.find(moreNeeded) != mpp.end())
		{
			return {mpp[moreNeeded], i};
		}
		mpp[num] = i;
	}
	return {-1, -1};
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
