---
title: Majority element
---

### Question

Given an array `nums` of size `n`, return _the majority element_.

The majority element is the element that appears more than `⌊n / 2⌋` times. You may assume that the majority element always exists in the array.

## Optimal Approach

### Concept

This code utilizes the Boyer-Moore Voting Algorithm to efficiently find the majority element in an array. It leverages the fact that if a majority element exists, it will appear more than half the times, cancelling out the occurrences of other elements.

### Steps

1. **Initialization:**
   - Two integer variables are declared:
     - `count` (initialized to 0) is used to track the current count of the potential majority element.
     - `element` is a variable to store the candidate for the majority element.
2. **Iterating through the Array:**
   - The code uses a for loop (`it` iterating through elements in `nums`) to process each element in the array.
3. **Candidate Selection and Count Update:**
   - There are two cases based on the current `count` value:
     - If `count == 0`: This indicates we haven't encountered a potential majority element yet. In this case, the current element (`it`) is assigned to `element`, and `count` is incremented to 1.
     - If `element == it`: This signifies encountering the same element we've tentatively chosen as the majority element. So, we increment `count` to keep track of its occurrences.
   - In both these cases, if the current element becomes the majority element, its count will keep increasing, eventually outweighing the counts of other elements.
4. **Count Decrement (if Mismatch):**
   - If the current element (`it`) is different from the chosen `element`, it indicates a potential mismatch with the majority element. In this case, we decrement `count`. The idea is that if another element appears more than the current `element`, its count will eventually become positive, signaling it as the new candidate.

### Code

```cpp [Majority element]
int majorityElement(vector<int> &nums)
{
	int count = 0;
	int element;

	for (auto it : nums)
	{
		if (count == 0)
		{
			count++;
			element = it;
		}
		else if (element == it)
			count++;
		else
			count--;
	}
	return element;
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(1)`    | `O(1)`  | `O(1)`     |
