---
title: Maximum subarray
---

### Question

Given an integer array `nums`, find the subarray with the largest sum, and return _its sum_.

## Optimal Approach

### Concept

This code utilizes a technique called Kadane's Algorithm to efficiently find the subarray with the largest sum. It iterates through the array and keeps track of two variables:

- `sum`: This variable stores the current sum of a potential subarray.
- `maxSum`: This variable stores the maximum sum encountered so far.

### Steps

1. **Initialization:**
   - Two integer variables are declared:
     - `maxSum` (initialized to `INT_MIN`) is used to store the maximum sum found so far. `INT_MIN` is the lowest possible integer value, ensuring any positive sum will be greater.
     - `sum` (initialized to 0) is used to store the current sum of a potential subarray.
2. **Iterating through the Array:**
   - The code uses a for loop (`i`) to iterate through each element `nums[i]` in the array `nums`.
3. **Current Sum Update:**
   - The current element `nums[i]` is added to the `sum`. This represents expanding the potential subarray by including the current element.
4. **Max Sum Update (if necessary):**
   - The code checks if the current `sum` is greater than the `maxSum`. If it is, it means we've encountered a new subarray with a larger sum. In this case, the `maxSum` is updated with the current `sum`.
5. **Resetting Current Sum (if needed):**
   - The code checks if the current `sum` is less than 0. A subarray with a negative sum cannot contribute to the maximum sum. So, if `sum` becomes negative, it's reset to 0. This effectively restarts the search for a new subarray with a positive sum from the next element onwards.

### Code

```cpp [Max subarray]
int maxSubArray(vector<int> &nums)
{
	int maxSum = INT_MIN;
	int sum = 0;
	for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++)
	{
		sum += nums[i];
		if (maxSum < sum)
			maxSum = sum;
		if (sum < 0)
			sum = 0;
	}
	return maxSum;
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(1)`    | `O(1)`  | `O(1)`     |
