---
title: Best time to buy and sell stock
---

### Question

You are given an array `prices` where `prices[i]` is the price of a given stock on the `ith` day.

You want to maximize your profit by choosing a **single day** to buy one stock and choosing a **different day in the future** to sell that stock.

Return _the maximum profit you can achieve from this transaction_. If you cannot achieve any profit, return `0`.

## Optimal Approach

### Concept

This code utilizes a simple and efficient approach to find the maximum profit possible by buying a stock on one day and selling it on a later day. It keeps track of the minimum buying price and the maximum potential profit based on that price.

### Steps

1. **Initialization:**
   - Two integer variables are declared:
     - `min_price` (initialized to `INT_MAX`) is used to store the minimum price encountered so far. This represents the potential buying price for the stock.
     - `max_profit` (initialized to 0) is used to store the maximum profit achievable based on the current `min_price`.
2. **Iterating through Prices:**
   - The code uses a for loop (`it` iterating through elements in `prices`) to process each stock price in the array.
3. **Minimum Price Update:**
   - If the current stock price (`it`) is lower than the current `min_price`, it signifies a potential buying opportunity at a lower price. So, the `min_price` is updated with the current price.
4. **Potential Profit Calculation:**
   - The code calculates the potential profit for selling the stock on the current day (`it - min_price`). This represents the difference between the current price (potential selling price) and the `min_price` (potential buying price).
   - It then uses the `max` function to compare this potential profit with the current `max_profit`.
     - If the potential profit is higher than the `max_profit`, it means we've encountered a better selling opportunity based on the previous minimum buying price.
     - In this case, the `max_profit` is updated with this higher potential profit.

### Code

```cpp [Max Profit]
int maxProfit(vector<int> &prices)
{
	int min_price = INT_MAX;
	int max_profit = 0;

	for (auto it : prices)
	{
		if (it < min_price)
			min_price = it;
		else
			max_profit = max(max_profit, it - min_price);
	}
	return max_profit;
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(1)`    | `O(1)`  | `O(1)`     |
