---
title: Rearrange array elements by sign
---

### Question

You are given a **0-indexed** integer array `nums` of **even** length consisting of an **equal** number of positive and negative integers.

You should return the array of nums such that the the array follows the given conditions:

1. Every **consecutive pair** of integers have **opposite signs**.
2. For all integers with the same sign, the **order** in which they were present in `nums` is **preserved**.
3. The rearranged array begins with a positive integer.

Return _the modified array after rearranging the elements to satisfy the aforementioned conditions_.

## Optimal Approach

### Concept

This code utilizes two separate indices to place positive and negative elements in an alternating fashion while maintaining the relative order of elements with the same sign. It leverages a new result vector (`res`) to store the rearranged elements.

### Steps

1. **Initialization:**
   - Two integer variables are declared:
     - `posIndex` (initialized to 0) represents the index for placing positive elements in the result vector (`res`). It starts at 0 to ensure the first element is positive.
     - `negIndex` (initialized to 1) represents the index for placing negative elements in the result vector. It starts at 1 to maintain the alternating pattern.
   - A new vector `res` of size `nums.size()` (same size as the original array) is declared and initialized with zeros to store the rearranged elements.
2. **Iterating through the Array:**
   - The code uses a for loop (`i`) to iterate through each element `nums[i]` in the original array `nums`.
3. **Element Classification and Placement:**
   - Inside the loop, it checks if the current element `nums[i]` is positive (greater than or equal to 0).
     - If it's positive:
       - The element is placed at the `posIndex` of the result vector `res`.
       - The `posIndex` is incremented by 2 to move to the next even index for the next positive element, maintaining alternation.
     - If it's negative:
       - The element is placed at the `negIndex` of the result vector `res`.
       - The `negIndex` is incremented by 2 to move to the next odd index for the next negative element, maintaining alternation.

### Code

```cpp [Rearrange array]
vector<int> rearrangeArray(vector<int> &nums)
{
	int posIndex = 0, negIndex = 1;
	vector res(nums.size(), 0);

	for (int i = 0; i < nums.size(); i++)
	{
		if (nums[i] >= 0)
		{
			res[posIndex] = nums[i];
			posIndex += 2;
		}
		else
		{
			res[negIndex] = nums[i];
			negIndex += 2;
		}
	}
	return res;
}

```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
