---
title: Array leaders
---

### Question

Given an array **arr** of **n** positive integers, your task is to find all the leaders in the array. An element of the array is considered a leader if it is greater than all the elements on its right side or if it is equal to the maximum element on its right side. The rightmost element is always a leader.

## Optimal Approach

### Concept

This code utilizes the fact that the rightmost element in the array is always a leader (no elements to its right). It iterates through the array from right to left, keeping track of the current maximum element encountered so far. If an element is greater than or equal to the current maximum, it's considered a leader and gets added to the output vector.

### Steps

1. **Initialization:**
   - An integer variable `max` (initialized to `INT_MIN`) is used to store the current maximum element encountered so far.
   - A vector `out` is declared to store the leaders that will be found.
2. **Iterating from Right to Left:**
   - The code uses a for loop (`i`) that iterates from `n-1` (last element) down to 0 (excluding the last element). This is because the last element is inherently a leader and doesn't need comparison.
3. **Leader Identification and Storage:**
   - Inside the loop, it checks if the current element `arr[i]` is greater than or equal to the current `max`.
     - If it is (`arr[i] >= max`), it signifies a leader:
       - The `max` is updated with the current element `arr[i]` as it becomes the new maximum seen so far.
       - The current element `arr[i]` is pushed back into the `out` vector, marking it as a leader.
4. **Reversing the Output (Optional):**
   - Since the iteration happens from right to left, the leaders will be stored in the `out` vector in reverse order.
   - The code includes a `reverse` function call (depending on the desired output format) to reverse the elements in `out`, placing the leftmost leader as the first element.
5. **Returning the Leaders:**
   - After iterating through the entire array, the `out` vector will contain all the leaders found in the array.
   - The function returns this `out` vector containing the leaders.

### Code

```cpp [Array Leaders]
vector<int> leaders(int n, int arr[])
{
	int max = INT_MIN;
	vector<int> out;
	for (int i = n - 1; i >= 0; i--)
	{
		if (arr[i] >= max)
		{
			max = arr[i];
			out.push_back(max);
		}
	}
	reverse(out.begin(), out.end());
	return out;
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
