---
title: Rotate array
---

### Question

Given an integer array `nums`, rotate the array to the right by `k` steps, where `k` is non-negative.

## Optimal Approach

### Intuition

- **Handling Wrap-around:**
  - It recognizes that rotating by k steps beyond the array size is equivalent to rotating by k % size. This optimization avoids unnecessary processing.
- **Temporary Storage for Last k Elements:**
  - It creates a temporary vector `temp` of size k to store the last k elements of the original array (`nums`). This ensures these elements are preserved during the rotation process.
- **Shifting Elements to the Right:**
  - It iterates from the second-last element (`nums.size() - k - 1`) down to the first element (`i >= 0`) of the original array.
  - For each element `nums[i]`, it overwrites the element k positions to the right (`nums[i+k]`) in the original array. This essentially creates space for the elements from the temporary storage.
- **Copying Back the Last k Elements:**
  - Finally, it copies the k elements from the temporary vector `temp` back to the beginning of the original array (`nums`). This places the previously stored elements in their correct positions after the rotation.

### Code

```cpp [Rotate]
void rotate(vector<int> &nums, int k)
{
	k = k % nums.size();
	vector temp(k, 0);
	copy(nums.end() - k, nums.end(), temp.begin());
	for (int i = nums.size() - k - 1; i >= 0; i--)
	{
		nums[i + k] = nums[i];
	}
	copy(temp.begin(), temp.end(), nums.begin());
}
```

**OR**

- **Left Rotation:** To rotate left, we need to add the vector index. For example, you have to rotate the vector left 3 times. The 3rd index of the vector becomes the first element. **`vec.begin() + 3`** will rotate vector 3 times left.
- **Right Rotation:** To rotate right, we need to subtract the vector index. For example, you have to rotate the vector right 3 times. The 3th last index of the vector becomes the first element. **`vec.end() - 3`** will rotate vector 3 times right.

```cpp [Rotate]
void rotate(vector<int> &nums, int k)
{
	k = k % nums.size();
	::rotate(nums.begin(), nums.begin() + k, nums.end()); // left rotation
	::rotate(nums.begin(), nums.end() - k, nums.end()); // right rotation
}
```

### Complexity

|                  | Best Case | Average | Worst Case |
| ---------------- | --------- | ------- | ---------- |
| Time Complexity  | `O(n)`    | `O(n)`  | `O(n)`     |
| Space Complexity | `O(k)`    | `O(k)`  | `O(k)`     |
